---
id: version-1.11.0-1.9.0
title: Upgrading to Cumulus 1.9.0
hide_title: true
original_id: 1.9.0
---

# Upgrading to Cumulus 1.9.0

**Note**: As of Cumulus 1.11.0 these instructions are out of date.  Please refer to the [1.11.0 Upgrade Instructions](upgrade/1.11.0) if you are attempting to run this update on > 1.11.

## Additional Functionality

Cumulus 1.9 uses versioned collections to support granules from different collections and version numbers.
These granules usually come from PDRs where objects are defined with a DATA_VERSION and DATA_TYPE
The associated collections should reflect the same version and dataType.  CMR would also need to use the same dataType.
If a dataType is not provided, Cumulus will use the collection name.

Collections are stored in a collections folder in S3 using this convention: <dataType>___<version>.json
This allows collections to be retrieved quickly in realtime.
If a collection is not passed to the ingest workflow, granules will need to have a dataType and version attributes.

## Run migrations

A migration exist to migrate existing collections to be versioned.

Cumulus 1.7 creates a lambda function for the migration. The lambda function is named `<your-cloudformation-stack-name>-executeMigrations`

You have to invoke this lambda function at the end of your deployment to copy your records from ElasticSearch to DynamoDB. This is possible in three ways:

1. **Use cumulus-api command line utility:**
```
$ ./node_modules/.bin/cumulus-api migrate --stack <your-cloudformation-stack-name>
```
2. **Invoke the lambda function directly with AWS CLI:**
```
$ aws lambda invoke --function-name <your-cloudformation-stack-name>-executeMigrations
```
3. **Invoke the lambda function from the AWS website:**
  - go to the lambda service
  - find the `<your-cloudformation-stack-name>-executeMigrations`
  - click on `Test` Button
